Time to recalculate all stock prices here
and for that, we want to hook up our
end day button. The end day button can be found in the header
and therefore, I'll add some methods
to this header here, so that I'm able to actually use this. I'll name it
end day, the method this button should trigger
and here I basically want to call an action
I do have in my store, in my stocks.js file to be precise in the stocks module. For that I will map
the actions because I'll later on also add actions for saving and loading,
so here it really makes sense to map all actions,
so import map actions from vuex here and then in methods, I'll distribute it out with the spread operator
again, map actions and map actions here takes an array because I want to keep the original names and the
action
I'm now interested in is named randomize stocks,
this one here. So I can simply copy that name here as a string as always
and this allows me in end day to simply call this randomize stocks, this action
I know which will be available because we're mapping it here.
So this will now execute this action in the stocks.js file in our store folder,
however there, we do commit random stocks but there, we don't do anything.
So let's now implement the logic to actually recalculate stock prices,
how can we recalculate them?
Well first, we want to access our stocks and then we want to do something for each stock.
Now here stocks of course refers to all our stocks, not just the ones in our portfolio, there
I then want to pass this callback function for each expects, so this function here will be executed
for each stock in this array,
stock will then be automatically passed as an argument and then we can basically transform it here or
do whatever we like with it here.
So here I want to set stock price to a new price, this new price is generally random but this would be
a random number between 0 and 0.9999,
not really the kind of price I want,
instead I only want to use the old price and then increase or decrease it a little bit.
So I will say stock price times this but that of course doesn't make sense,
it makes more sense if I say one plus random,
so now I have my old stock price times 1.0 - 1.999,
so everything between keeping the current price and doubling it is possible.
Now that of course only gives us upside potential,
so I will deduct 0.5 from that,
so now we're multiplying the old price with something between 0.5 and 1.5.
Arguably that's a pretty huge swing for one day
but I think it's fine for this application and you may of course fine tune this to your needs but I
don't really want to write the next best finance algorithm here,
so that's fine for me,
the one thing I want to do though is I want to round the new stock price so that I simply have an integer again.
With that, I got a new stock price automatically applied
and now what do we need to do to also reflect this change in our portfolio in all the stocks we have
in there?
Nothing,
that's the awesome thing about vuex,
it's a lot of work to set it up
but in moments like these, you really see why it's so awesome to use in bigger applications.
We have one state and this is only one place where we alter it
but with all these getters and everything, this make sure it gets updated everywhere where it needs to
get updated.
So with this in place, we can go to the header and hook up our button here to end day,
so this end day button gets a click listener and calls end day, that's the name of the function we chose
down there and execute the method as I just see that.
And with that, we should have everything in place to now reload the application, hit end day
and as you can see, recalculate all our stock prices here.
So that looks pretty good,
let's reload again,
now looks good to me.
Of course we got pretty huge swings here
but generally it works as intended.
Now let's see if I buy 100 of BMW stocks here and hit end day here, we see the price update
here too
but swings are too big for me,
I made a comeback.
Let's sell them 100 here
and I made a decent profit here and this is how this works, how it is managed in this global store and
therefore everywhere it updates and we don't need to manually take care that if we want to change it in
one place, we always update it in another place, that's done automatically with this construct of getters
and mutations and so on.
Well with that, the missing things really only are animations between our routes here and of course making
the save and load button work.